Meter KPI option implementation doc (#530)
UMAprotocol/UMIPs: Implementations/meter-kpi.md

## Title

Meter KPI options

## Summary

[Meter](https://meter.io) is a native blockchain that would like to deploy a KPI option contract that pays users back for their lost funds due to a [hack](https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/02/07/44m-stolen-in-hack-of-blockchain-infrastructure-firm-meter/). The options will have the following features:

 - If the Meter network repays users back in stablecoins the options will expire to zero. 
 - If the Meter network does not repay users back in stablecoins the options will expire based on the price of the MTRG token.

 The intention of this program is to instill confidence for the users of the chain and make an assured commitment by the Meter network to repay users in some capacity. The KPI options will be collateralised by the MTRG token.

## Rationale

There are 2 layers to this implementation: i) the definition of the repaying using stables and ii) getting the price of the MTRG price. This implementation will use have a two step settlement logic

The set up will work as follows: 

- The KPI options will be minted using the `General_KPI` identifier. 

> - An early expiry condition will be set up such that if the Meter Network publicly publishes an announcement that mentions the repaying of the hacked funds, the KPI options will expire to a value of zero. The identification of such announcement is any public account (such as Twitter, Medium, etc.) that publishes the repaying using stablecoins. The early expiry request will be passed through the `YES_OR_NO_QUERY`, If yes, the KPI options will expire. If no, the options will remain unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On deployment, the `enableEarlyExpiration` parameter will be set to `true` so that if the Meter Network publicly publishes an announcement that mentions the repaying of the hacked funds, the KPI options will expire to a value of zero. The identification of such announcement is any public account (such as Twitter, Medium, etc.) that publishes the repaying using stablecoins. The early expiry request will be resolved using the `YES_OR_NO_QUERY` from [UMIP-107](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/blob/master/UMIPs/umip-107.md), If yes, the KPI options will expire. If no, the options will remain unchanged.
```

- If no such announcement is made, the KPI options will expire based on the price of the MTRG token, using the CoinGecko API. The token price logic will be passed through ancillary data. 

## Intended Ancillary Data

### `YES_OR_NO_QUERY`
```

> Q: Did the Meter network repay back the hacked funds? The answer is valid if any public medium publishes the repaying using stablecoins from the Meter network. P1: No, P2: Yes.

Reviewer: Should we use the same format as Polymarket so that there isn't any confusion for Proposers/Disputers?

`res_data: p1: 0, p2: 1, p3: 0.5, p4: -57896044618658097711785492504343953926634992332820282019728.792003956564819968. Where p1 corresponds to No, p2 to a Yes, p3 to unknown, and p4 to an early request`

Author: Will update

```
### `Token Price calculation`
```

> Metric: Meter token price,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metric: Meter token price measured in USD,
```

> Rounding:2

Reviewer 2: Rounding normally should be applied after any post-processing. Though UMIP-117 might need to be updated to avoid this ambiguity.
In this particular case where expected payouts in post-processing table have max 11 digits after decimal separator you would need to set `Rounding:11`.

Aggregation:TWAP TVL for the provided time range,
StartTWAP:1648771200,

> EndTWAP:1651363200,

Reviewer: I would maybe change these to `<StartTWAP>` and `<EndTWAP>`

> Rounding:6

Reviewer: This is subjective but I think rounding somewhere between 2 and 4 would be an adequate level of precision. Feel free to ignore if you disagree or have had previous conversations with the team around rounding.

> q: Did the Meter network repay back the hacked funds? The answer is valid if any public medium publishes the repaying using stablecoins from the Meter network. If the answer is YES, the contract will expire early. If no, the contract will remain live. p1:1 and p2:0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
q: "Did the Meter network repay back the hacked funds? The answer is valid if any public medium publishes the repaying using stablecoins from the Meter network before the expiration of the requesting contract. If the answer is YES, the contract will expire early. If no, the contract will remain live.",
p1:1,
p2:0
```

```

## Implementation

1. Determine the price evaluation range from `StartTWAP` till `EndTWAP` as UNIX timestamps passed in the ancillary data.

> For historical pricing series, use CoinGecko API endpoint: https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3/coins/{id}/market_chart/

Reviewer: Would start "For historical pricing series..." as step 2

    * Example API request for the token pricing: https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3/coins/meter/market_chart/range?vs_currency=usd&from=1648771200&to=16513632000x42bbfa2e77757c645eeaad1655e0911a7553efbc/market_chart/range?vs_currency=eth&from=1648771200&to=1651363200

    * Locate the `prices` key value from CoinGecko API response - it should contain a list of [ timestamp, price ] value pairs. Note that returned CoinGecko timestamps are in milliseconds;
    * In case returned pricing interval is more frequent than 1 hour voters should extend the requested time range. This is necessary to have consistent pricing results independent on when the voters are calculating them.
    * Voters should verify that obtained price results agree with broad market consensus.
5. Once obtaining the prices, find the average price for given time range.
6. Use the table in post processing to find the price and resolve the contract using the payout per KPI option.

## Post processing

Once the TWAP value has been calculated, the options will expire based on the following payout function:

The payout thresholds should be equal to or above to jump to the next level.

> | **MTRG Price ($)** | **MTRG Release** | **Payout per KPI token** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **MTRG Price ($)** | **MTRG Release** | **Resolved price response** |
```

|----------------|------------------|--------------------------|

> | 0              | 0                |             0            |

Reviewer 2: Is it really intended that below 10$ price the payout is `0`, then it jumps up to `0.1650265177` and decreases again as price continues increasing?

| 10             | 37,988.37        |             0.2475397765 |
| 15             | 25,325.58        |             0.1650265177 |
| 20             | 18,994.19        |             0.1237699208 |
| 25             | 15,195.35        |            0.09901592364 |
| 30             | 12,662.79        |            0.08251325884 |
| 35             | 10,853.82        |            0.07072565043 |
| 40             | 9,497.09         |            0.06188492784 |
| 45             | 8,441.86         |            0.05500883922 |
| 50             | 7,597.67         |            0.04950792924 |
| 55             | 6,906.98         |            0.04500725579 |

## Intended Application

> It is intended to deploy the documented KPI options on Meter network using [LSP contract](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/financial-templates/long-short-pair/LongShortPair.sol) with `General_KPI` price identifier approved in [UMIP-117](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/blob/master/UMIPs/umip-117.md).

Reviewer: The post processing info above is really helpful! Would just include `at or above` or `at or below` so there isn't confusion if the price is equal to one of the prices listed.

These details might not be confirmed yet, but could we include the  fpl, `collateralPerPair`, `lowerBound`, and `upperBound`?

      * `from`: start timestamp (identified in Step 1);
      * `to`: end timestamp (identified in Step 1);
    * Example API request for the token pricing: https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3/coins/meter/market_chart/range?vs_currency=usd&from=1648771200&to=16513632000x42bbfa2e77757c645eeaad1655e0911a7553efbc/market_chart/range?vs_currency=eth&from=1648771200&to=1651363200

    * Locate the `prices` key value from CoinGecko API response - it should contain a list of [ timestamp, price ] value pairs. Note that returned CoinGecko timestamps are in milliseconds;
    * In case returned pricing interval is more frequent than 1 hour voters should extend the requested time range. This is necessary to have consistent pricing results independent on when the voters are calculating them.
    * Voters should verify that obtained price results agree with broad market consensus.
4. Once obtaining the prices, find the average price for given time range.

## Post processing

Once the TWAP value has been calculated, the options will expire based on the following payout function:

The payout thresholds should be equal to or above to jump to the next level.

> | **MTRG Price ($)** | **MTRG Release** | **Payout per KPI token** |

Reviewer 2: Actual `Payout per KPI token` depends on `collateralPerPair`, chosen FPL and its parameters that are not known before contract is deployed. Hence, for the implementation doc it would be better to replace it with the price that should be resolved by UMA voters.

Author: In the thrid Columb, the collateral per pair can be taken as the "Payout per KPI option"

I can add an extra step here to make it clearer

Reviewer 2: The third column should be the `Resolved price response`. The deployer would then choose `collateralPerPair` and other FPL parameters based on the desired payout since we should not put the burden to reverse engineer the contract logic by the voters.

> | **MTRG Price ($)** | **MTRG Release** | **Payout per KPI token** |

Author: How many tokens should be released in total to KPI option holders.

> | **MTRG Price ($)** | **MTRG Release** | **Payout per KPI token** |

Reviewer 2: ok, so this is just informative, no need to consider this value when voters are resolving the price?

|----------------|------------------|--------------------------|

> | 10             | 37,988.37        |             0.2475397765 |

Reviewer 2: Please add threshold for `0$` price as that should instruct what price to resolve if MTRG is below `10$`. Should it be 1?
